- [Instructor] So now that we've talked a little bit
about the prototype pattern I want to show you
how it's used in the Spring Framework
as opposed to the Java Framework this time.
So let's jump into our IDE
and just like we've done a couple times before
let's create a new package in our base package
And this time we're going to call it Prototype.
Now we're going to create two very dumb classes here
and the first we're going to call ProtoTrue
and the second
we're going to call ProtoFalse
Now we're not going to do anything with either one
of these classes as far as implementation.
What we are going to do is jump into
the Design Patterns App application.
Alright, so in this class we're going to create a Bean.
Public ProtoFalse
and we'll simply call it that
and we will return a new ProtoFalse object.
Now we're going to do another Bean
and this time we're going to set it Scope
to be equal to
prototype.
Now we're going to do a public ProtoTrue
and we will return a new ProtoTrue.
Now, in Spring this is all we have to do
to make our Bean a Prototype.
So as we're looking at this what I would expect
to see is if we do a test
two instances of ProtoFalse will be identical
whereas two instances of ProtoTrue will not be.
And let's jump into our test
and actually see if that's the case.
So we're going to jump down here
into our Design Patterns application once again
and just like we did before we will auto wire in
an instance of ProtoTrue
and we will call it true1.
And auto wire in an instance of ProtoTrue
and we will call it true2.
And now we're going to do the same for ProtoFalse.
False one and at Auto Wired
on ProtoFalse
false2.
Now we will create our test.
Public void testPrototypes.
Alright, so we are going to say
Assert.assertSame
on false1 and false2.
So what we're saying is that those two objects
are going to be the exact same
the same object reference.
At the same time, we're going to say assert
not same
on true1
and true2.
And I know you got to kind of think about that
'cause it's a little backwards
but what that's saying is that the Prototype False objects
the ones that we did not set to be Prototype
therefore singleton are going to be the same
as we saw in our singleton test.
We're also saying that the two beans
that are prototype beans will not be the same.
So now let's go ahead and run our test
And as Spring starts up we'll let it do its thing
and we expect to see a green test at this case.
And indeed we have a green test.
So we've proven that we now have two different instances
of the same object.
Now let's go back to the App application
for the Design Patterns here
and let's talk about what this actually would entail
on line 25.
Very seldom would we simply return an instance.
What we're going to do in Spring usually during this method
is at all of the expansive behavior
through injecting other beans into this class.
And once it's all injected
then we're going to hand it back out.
Now if all of those values are beans that means
that they're singletons and they've been controlled
and we can actually put behavior in the class
that doesn't have to worry about being thread-safe
while keeping all of those singletons in place.
So in the real world
all of your work is done in this method
but because it's a prototype
the expansive operations that get injected
into this class have already been done.
It's only the work that goes on here
so that you get a bean that acts as a prototype.
It acts as a cloned object even though
it really isn't in the Spring world.